# Deep Learning with Tropical Storm Images


## Question/need:
### What is the framing question of your analysis, or the purpose of the model/system you plan to build?

My goal is to create a model that can correctly label a satellite image of a tropical storm or hurricane in the Atlantic with its strength category (Tropical Depression, Tropical Storm, Hurricane Category 1-5). 

### Who benefits from exploring this question or building this model/system?

Forecasters and members of the public who want to know a storm’s strength based only on satellite imagery. This would be useful due to the volume of satellite imagery taken over the life of a storm - often every 10-15 minutes. Other methods used to calculate the storm strength are either labor intensive/dangerous (flying a hurricane hunter aircraft into the storm to collect wind and pressure data), or prone to error (Dvorak intensity calculations).

## Data Description:
### What dataset(s) do you plan to use, and how will you obtain the data?

1. [RAMMB Enhanced Infrared Satellite Imagery](https://rammb-data.cira.colostate.edu/tc_realtime/season.asp?storm_season=2020)
I will be using Beautiful Soup to scrape all images for Atlantic tropical storms and hurricanes from 2012-2021.
* My [tropical storm NLP dataset](https://github.com/saramoira/tropical_storm_reports) from the unsupervised learning module - in particular I’m interested in the storm strength data as well as (possibly) the topic labels generated by the LDA model I built.

### If modeling, what will you predict as your target?

I plan to predict the storm strength category. If the modeling goes well I may also try to predict topic category. 

## Tools:
### How do you intend to meet the tools requirement of the project?

I plan to use Keras to build a deep learning model.

### Are you planning in advance to need or use additional tools beyond those required?

I plan to remove poor satellite scans using Adobe Photoshop image stacking scripts. 

## MVP Goal:
### What would a minimum viable product (MVP) look like for this project?

Basic neural net model that predicts storm strength category.
